# Project 4
Made by L36 Group 2
  <br>
<details>
How to Run and Compile 🚀
  <br>
<ol>
  <li>Compile all files in src</li>
  <li>If you would like to login to an existing account, we have created a seller and customer account for you.  Customer: grader@cs180.com Pass: test  Seller: grader2@cs180.com Pass: test.  Please feel free to add new accounts as you wish!</li>
  <li>Great success</li>
</ol>

</details>
  
# Class Descriptions:
- **Marketplace** - This is the main class where all of the different classes come together. It stores objects of Sellers and Customers and keeps track of who is the active seller and customer through the variables activeCustomer and activeSeller. When it starts it welcomes the user and allows them to either create an account or sign in. Then it takes the user through either the customer's home screen or the seller's home screen displaying different options that the user can choose. This class starts the program and has everything in a loop that will keep the program running until the user stops it. For saving the data the user enters, Marketplace reads and writes to the Accounts.txt file to save data and makes lists based on the file. **Testing** We check to see if the user data is successfully saved to the files. After making accounts and saving them to the files, we can navigate the home screens of each seller and customer to see if they work. **Relation with classes** Marketplace creates customer and seller objects, displays their home screen and calls their methods. It can create accounts, manage stores, and store data for these classes. Marketplace also manages data within the Store and product classes to edit or create products at stores. Marketplace also handles sales and the shopping cart class for managing sales.

- **Database** - Database is a crucial class in our program. Its main functionality is reading and storing data from all of the different files there are. it reads through Accounts.txt and fills information in lists of customers and sellers. It also writes data to files so all the other classes don't have to worry about it. **Testing** We needed to verify that it would read the information from the files correctly and correctly inputs the data from the files into the lists. It also needed to handle different situations like sellers with multiple stores. For writing data we needed to make sure that it wrote the correct information like account information. Once we made sure it wrote all of the data correctly we knew that it could save things to your computer. **Relation with other classes** Database works closely with customer and seller classes to read and write their data. Then through those classes it also stores information about the Store and Product classes. This class handles the persistence of data for most of the program.


- **Person** - Holds the email, password, and account type information for all users that have created an account. This info is stored in Accounts.txt and is used to identify returning accounts and to create new accounts. This class has methods for checking the formatting of new emails and passwords, identifying duplicate emails, as well as for editing an account's email and password (UI included). The person class is the superclass of both customer and seller classes, which inherit these fields and methods.<br>**Testing**: By putting a create account/log in interface at the beginning of the main method, we could repeatedly create new Person objects and check if their account info was saved. Indeed, no duplicate emails were allowed, the formatting had to be correct, and old accounts were saved and could be accessed at any later time.
- **Customer** - A subclass of Person. Contains basic account information as well as basic customer information, such as their current shopping cart, a list of products they have purchased, and a list of stores they have bought from. This information is stored in Customers.txt so user data persists. This class has UI and backend handling to display all of the products in the marketplace, search for a specific product in a marketplace, and sort the marketplace by products bought overall or just from the current user. Additionally, customers can add, purchase, and remove items from or to a shopping cart.<br>**Testing**: By creating different stores and sellers using the respective classes, we could test the functionality of searching, sorting, and buying classes. After attempting to do these tasks for various different sellers, stores, and products, we were able to verify that the program performed as expected for the user input and that user data persisted between runs.
  
- **CartObject** - CartObject is a small subclass of the product class that handles the shopping cart for customers. Its constructor has all of the attributes of a product as well as how many are being added to the cart. It also has a to-string method printing all of the attributes in the constructor out. **Testing** Testing needed to be done to check if the methods worked like the toString method. **Relation** The CartObject class works with the product class because it is a super class of it and it stores information and helps make a shopping cart of products. 
 
- **Sales** - The sales class is meant to store information and handle prodcut sales for the seller an dthe customer. There are multiple constructors for different classes with different levels of information to store. There are all of the different getter methods like seller email and customer email to name a few. This is used for accessing information in different classes where transactions are being made. **Testing** For testing we need to make sure the constructors initialize properly and the methods return the right values. We also need to test if the toString method has the right string which is formatted correctly. **Relation with other classes** The sales class is used to record sales of products made between the customer and the store. Also, the sales class helps print data for the seller to view in their dashboard. 

- **Seller** - The seller class is a subclass of a person which is a class that represents a seller in our marketplace. It stores a list of stores and sales to keep data of the seller stores and the sales they made. Also, it keeps track of the current store being used. The Seller can create, remove, or add a store to their list of stores. When creating a store we keep all store names unique. It can also create sales for its list of sales unique to that seller. Also, the seller's information can be changed. The seller can also delete their own account which will delete related products and stores. Also, each seller has their own dashboard where they can view statistics of their sales by store. **Testing** We needed to make sure that stores could be created, removed, or modified for the seller's request. We checked if the seller's information can be updated successfully and that the dashboard displays statistics accurately for the seller to view. **Relation with other classes** A seller is a subclass of the person class and the seller class manages stores with their own products. Its dashboard is accessible from the marketplace class and the seller has their list of sales from customers that have purchased the seller's products.  

- **Store** - The store class is a crucial part of the program that manages and stores its list of products and allows customers to buy them. It has a list of products and sold products to help keep track of everything going on in the marketplace. It stores information like the seller's email, the store file, the store name, and the seller's name along with the lists of products. The store can also create, edit, and remove products as well as update its own information. The getter methods return everything in the constructor and make sure that access to its information is possible. Stores can also compare themselves to other stores by sales. **Testing** What needed to be tested was the creation, editing, and removal of products as well as the store information being updated properly. Also what is needed to be set is to see if the compare method can correctly compare stores based on sales. **Relation with other classes** The store class has an array of lists of products and sold products which allows it to modify the products within the store. Also, the store gets managed by the seller class because a store is always assigned a seller to work under. 

- **Product** - The product class represents the products with a marketplace that are bought by customers, managed by stores, and sold by sellers. It has a lot of attributes compared to the other classes. The list of attributes includes name, store selling, purchaser, description, quantity, price, and cart quantity. There are getters and setters for all of these to access product information across classes to help sort and set certain aspects of each product. There is also an equal method to check if products are equal based on their name. There is an updated product method to update product information. **Testing** We tested if you can use the methods to change the aspects of the products. Also, we need to see if the equals method can accurately compare two products. **Relation with other classes** The product class is used in many other classes. The store class manages its own products, sells the products, and the customer buys the products. Also, the sales class stores what products are sold and the information about the sale.

# Submissions:
- Vocareum: Michael Wolf
- BrightSpace: Michael Wolf
